feat: Auto unload model if vLLM health check failed (#73)
triton-inference-server/vllm_backend: docs/health_check.md

#  * Neither the name of NVIDIA CORPORATION nor the names of its
#    contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived
#    from this software without specific prior written permission.
#
# THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS ``AS IS'' AND ANY
# EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
# IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR
# PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT OWNER OR
# CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL,
# EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO,
# PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR
# PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY
# OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
# (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE
# OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
-->

# vLLM Health Check (BETA)

> [!NOTE]
> The vLLM Health Check support is currently in BETA. Its features and
> functionality are subject to change as we collect feedback. We are excited to
> hear any thoughts you have!

> The vLLM backend supports checking for

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Starting with r24.12 vLLM backend supports checking for
```

Author: I would not mention the supported version at the beginning, because the user is simply checking out what this feature is, and the version is only relevant when they want to try it out.

[vLLM Engine Health](https://github.com/vllm-project/vllm/blob/v0.6.3.post1/vllm/engine/async_llm_engine.py#L1177-L1185)
upon receiving each inference request. If the health check fails, the entire

> model will be unloaded, so its state becomes NOT Ready at the server, which can

Reviewer 2: "unload" is a bit related to implementation detail, users only need to know the model will be not ready
```suggestion
model state will become NOT Ready at the server, which can
```

Author: Yes, it is implementation details. Updated.

be queried by the
[Repository Index](https://github.com/triton-inference-server/server/blob/main/docs/protocol/extension_model_repository.md#index)
or
[Model Ready](https://github.com/triton-inference-server/client/blob/main/src/c%2B%2B/library/http_client.h#L178-L192)
APIs.

> The Health Check is disabled by default. To enable it, set the following

Reviewer: Do we expect any perf impacts, or they are negligible ?

Author: We should not expect any impact if the feature is disabled. I will benchmark the numbers when it is enabled.

Reviewer: Sure, I understand this, I was wondering if it make sense to notify users that perf hit is expected, when this feature is enabled

Author: > I was wondering if it make sense to notify users that perf hit is expected, when this feature is enabled

Yes, I will mention it in the docs.

> can we benchmark both?

Sure. I will run the benchmarking once we are good with the change.

Author: Ran the benchmarking. Let us sync-up offline.

parameter on the model config to true
```
parameters: {
  key: "ENABLE_VLLM_HEALTH_CHECK"
  value: { string_value: "true" }
}
```
and select
[Model Control Mode EXPLICIT](https://github.com/triton-inference-server/server/blob/main/docs/user_guide/model_management.md#model-control-mode-explicit)
when the server is started.

> Supported since r24.12.

Author: Second though. I think we do not need to mention the version, because the feature is supported iff this documentation present.

> Supported since r24.12.

Reviewer: Sure, let's delete this atogether
